The reason why you need that as in
this case, or can you leave that out?
>> The reason you need the as
in this case is because,
without this, how would Next.js
know what the value of this id is?
Without you telling Next.js that, hey,
the actual value of this id
parameter is actually node.id,
it would not know, so
you do have to put the as there.
And, as is only gonna be for
dynamic routes.
If you don't have a dynamic route,
like you're just navigating to a route
that's hard coded, like /settings,
you don't need as, because you know
the path of it, you can just say go here.
But, if your name of your
route has a parameter in it,
then you need to let Next.js know how
to resolve that parameter and do this.
So, but this just tells Next.js, okay,
what component, what page are we loading,
cuz it's doing some prefetching stuff,
that's the other thing.
Next.js is doing a lot of prefetching
stuff in the background that you get for
free with a link component.
And then the as one is mostly for the
browser like, okay, here's where I work,
here's where I want you to go, and
here's where I kinda want you to prefetch,
that type of thing.
So, yes, you do need to ask for
parameters in the URL.
>> Do all routes have to be declared
from the root of the Pages folder?
>> So, all-
>> Like when you were doing a link there?
>> So when you're doing link, I see what
you're saying, like this relativity here?
>> Yeah, does it always have to be
relative to the root of the Pages folder?
Or, if I don't do the /folder,
derive it from my current folder?
>> I don't think it's relative, I think
it's relative to the Pages folder, yes.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Are there any SEO considerations when
using link?
>> Are there any SEO considerations?
No, I mean, no more considerations
than you would have if you were using
any other client-side router.
Cuz, like I said before, it only
proxies the HTML5 pushState experience,
which depending on where you're trying to
get this site indexed, if you're getting
indexed by Google, Google does index
JavaScript now, it does crawl JavaScript.
So, you shouldn't have a problem
there if you didn't have them before.
But, things like Twitter and Facebook,
I don't think they crawl JavaScript yet,
so yeah, you might have issues there.
And again, this is for
client-side routing.
But, also remember that,
by default Next.js is
going to pre-render every
single page by default.
So, when it comes to being index and
crawl, all of this is from the crawlers
experience, this is gonna be HTML anyway.
This is for after rehydration happens.
So, your page gets turned into
a stream on the server and
gets sent back to the browser's HTML.
It gets sent to a crawler's HTML, and
then it rehydrates on the front end,
which is basically, you can think of
it as like, this JavaScript comes down,
it looks at the DOM to figure
out where it needs to mount.
It matches, its DOM with what the server
sent down to see if they're the same,
and then it does some stuff with
JavaScript to inject some props.
That's rehydration, all that's happening.
But that's for your users,
that's for the browser.
As far as the crawler, they're gonna see
the HTML, unless you opt out of that.
>> It seems that they're saying that if
you take that as a block, and just put it
into a trap and remove as it still works,
is there any problem of doing it that way?
>> No, I don't think there's any
problem with doing it that way.
I'm not aware of any side
effects there might be.
The only guy I could think of,
and I can't confirm this,
because I just haven't looked into it.
Is that you might be opting out of
prefetching if you do that with the link
component.
I can look into that later if someone
else wants to look into it, but
that might be the case, cuz I think they
need to notice in order to do some type of
optimized prefetching, but
again, I could be wrong.
But this is the recommended approach,
so I'm guessing they recommend it for
a reason.
And I'm pretty sure it's for prefetching.
>> The routing happens
on the client-side but,
all of the routes have already
been pre-rendered, right?
Because of the server-side render.
>> Yeah, the navigating using the link
component happens on the client-side,
but the actual routes were
defined at build time.